Spring 2025 Raspberry Pi Updates (#789)
AlmaLinux/almalinux.org: content/blog/2025-04-07-spring-2025-raspberrypi-updates.md

---

> title: "Spring 2025 Raspberry Pi Updates"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Raspberry Pi Updates for AlmaLinux"
```

Author: I see you point, I agree with adding "for AlmaLinux" but do not want to remove Spring 2025.

Reviewer: I was actually hoping to see a catchier title here, but I ended up not finding one for myself to use. I'll remove this suggestion.

type: blog
author:
  name: "Koichiro Iwao"
  bio: "Engineer at Cybertrust Japan"
  image: /users/koichiroiwao.jpg

> date: '2025-04-07'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: '2025-04-08'
```

#images:
post:

>   title: "Spring 2025 Raspberry Pi Updates"

Reviewer: Once you add the header image, please also add the below line under the 'title' line here to reference it for the meta data:

`    image: /blog-images/2025/2025.04.08.RaspberryPiUpdates.png`

---

Hello, Community! I'm pleased to share the latest updates on Raspberry Pi with you. Have fun on the Pi!

## AlmaLinux OS Kitten 10 is now available for Raspberry Pi

As you might have already noticed, AlmaLinux OS Kitten 10 is now available for Raspberry Pi! Visit [AlmaLinux OS Kitten 10 page](https://wiki.almalinux.org/development/almalinux-os-kitten-10.html#raspberry-pi) for details.

> Both the console image and the GNOME image are available, along with previous versions; however, the MBR version has been omitted to reduce development effort. Therefore, only images with a GUID partition table are available in AlmaLinux OS Kitten 10, which means that the Raspberry Pi 3+ is no longer supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the console image and the GNOME image are available, as with previous versions; however, the MBR version has been omitted to reduce development effort. Therefore, only images with a GUID partition table are available in AlmaLinux OS Kitten 10. That means that the Raspberry Pi 3+ will not be supported for AlmaLinux OS 10 or AlmaLinux OS Kitten 10
```
We should clarify that this is only for 10. If it's true for older versions as well, we'll need to adjust messaging further.

Author: Indeed.

For detailed instructions, please refer to the [Raspberry Pi page on AlmaLinux wiki](https://wiki.almalinux.org/documentation/raspberry-pi.html#configure-boot-order).

## A graphics issue with Raspberry Pi 5

[A graphics issue](https://bugs.almalinux.org/view.php?id=497) has been reported on Raspberry Pi 5. The issue was initially reported on the 16GB RAM model but is actually related to Pi 5 revision 1.1 (also called D0 stepping). Raspberry Pi 5 was initially released with two memory options: 4GB and 8GB. These models are rev 1.0, and the later-added 2GB and 16GB models were rev 1.1. Subsequently, the 4GB and 8GB models were also updated to rev 1.1 in late 2024. Therefore, if you purchase a Raspberry Pi 5 now, it is likely to be rev 1.1 and affected by this issue.

We, the development team, have obtained the latest Raspberry Pi 5 rev 1.1 and have just begun investigating the issue. Please bear with us as we work towards a solution.

See `/proc/cpuinfo` to check your Raspberry Pi 5 revision.

```bash
$ grep ^Model /proc/cpuinfo
Model           : Raspberry Pi 5 Model B Rev 1.0
```

> For more information on the D0 stepping, please refer to this article by Jeff Geerling:
> - [New 2GB Pi 5 has 33% smaller die, 30% idle power savings](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2024/new-2gb-pi-5-has-33-smaller-die-30-idle-power-savings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on the D0 stepping, please refer to this article by Jeff Geerling:
- [New 2GB Pi 5 has 33% smaller die, 30% idle power savings](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2024/new-2gb-pi-5-has-33-smaller-die-30-idle-power-savings)

If you would like to say hi, ask questions, or make contributions, please join us in the ~altarch channel on [chat.almalinux.org](https://chat.almalinux.org). 
```

Author: The same thing is already on the Kitten 10 section. It might be redundant.

Author: I updated the get-involved sentence in the Kitten 10 section instead.
